please welcome from Apple computer Robin
Mikawa all right so let's get started my
name is Robin mikela I'm the manager of
the type engineering team that Apple
computer and I'm going to be here
talking to you today about the bon epi
on Mac OS pin but before I get started
let me give you some background and an
explanation why are we all here today
why are fonts so important so first and
foremost the thing to remember about
fonts is that they're inextricably tied
together with text so if you're working
with text you are working with fonts
that's really the thing to remember even
if you're developing let's say a simple
application terminal emulator that only
uses one font at a time even nowadays we
provide the option for users to set your
set your preferences so in that case
you'll have to deal with fonts in and
being able to list it and allow your
users to select the fonts now second
fonts have a long history they've
evolved over time you've got all these
different formats available and users
can and have sound and frustrating or
difficult to use they're tricky some
have multiple files that you have to
carry across you know others well
they're all different formats they're
all different styles so what we've done
on the system is made it a lot easier
for both the users and you as developers
to take advantage of all these
technologies and have consistent
reliable results make it really simple
to work with fonts and so what you're
going to get out of today's session is
how to hook into the operating system
and really make your applications shine
take up to the front of the pack you
know become leaders in the world of
thought so just to give you a short
overview of what the presentation is I'm
going to be talking about just how to
get started we're going to go right into
the meat of the matter we're going to
show you programming techniques tips and
tricks hints stuff
you shouldn't do and along the way
you're going to get some glimpses into
the future what we're feet what we're
working on for tiger as well as the
roadmap for longer term beyond tiger so
let's get started alright as developers
and I know exactly how you feel one of
the first questions maybe not the first
one but at least maybe the second the
third one is what api's are available
and how should I use them what I've
shown you here is not only the layering
but also what each component or API set
is really tailored for so to get started
up at the upper left we've got Coco that
is the application framework for Mac OS
10 so if you're starting from scratch or
you have the option to switch over to
the coco framework great you're going to
get a lot of the support for free now if
you want to do user interface text
you've got a chai toolbox that is d
engine for drawing user interface text
as well as measuring it and then
handling all the fonts support
underneath it such as substituting the
appropriate fonts for different
languages now underlying that is the
multilingual text engine what that does
is it handles the text editing and
static text behavior in a chai toolbox
itself there's also support for handling
a document based model as well as doing
a font user interface and so all of that
allows you to build essentially a very
basic text editing application just by
using em LTE now underlying all of this
is absolutely you've got Apple type
services for Unicode imaging people have
asked me that before that's the official
name what it is is the text layout
engine for Mac OS 10 it provides support
for positioning text in the right places
handling the fonts the graphics all of
that stuff is abstracted out from
underneath you it also handles things
like justification font features a lot
of details that you don't need to worry
about but that
can cocaine at that layer if you just
want to take advantage of some parts of
the system services now of course we've
got the graphic system you've all heard
about it it's court in addition to
providing basic support for rendering
text what's really more interesting for
you also is that you can hook into the
printing architecture and the imaging
model based on PDF with that you can
take advantage of support for the way it
handles fonts and then underlying all of
that is ATF itself that's Apple type
services and that's the core font system
on Mac OS 10 and so what that gives you
is a way to hook into the way fonts are
tracked detailed information about the
fonts such as the metrics and it's
really what serves all the fun
information up to the other parts of the
system now you'll notice there's one
component I've mentioned in the past
that isn't up here and that's quick draw
quick draw as a tiger has been
deprecated now don't panic it's not
going away it's just we've marked it in
the interfaces and allowed you to or let
you know that we're recommending that
you move on to other technologies such
as quartz we made sure there's
additional support in there to at least
match or parallel the functionality that
you become used to there's going to be a
discussion about it later in the week at
the graphics session and you can listen
in on those at that point in time
alright so next up as opposed to you as
developers where do you your users get
started where they're going to see the
user interface how do they get at the
fonts that they want where the commands
how do they process the fonts and so one
of the things we noticed that Apple was
that there really hasn't been any
guidelines for providing a consistent
user interface for font think of this
way you've got the file menu most of you
know it's like okay we've got a couple
commands in there that should be in
there edit menus in a similar way we're
recommending that you move to this model
for your font menu now the key thing to
remember here is that first command up
there show fonts
that's really where we're going to focus
all of our new features our development
or ease of use on the font panel that
command shows and hides the font panel
now we've made it really easy by
building in the support in interface
builder you can just drag in the font
menu the other items the other commands
in there if you don't want to support
them you can simply grade them out in
the menu but you probably already have
commands like they spread out somewhere
in your menu structure the idea is so
that users know exactly where to go for
at least they're really basic commands
for dealing with fonts now going along
with quick-draw being deprecated we're
highly recommending that you're moving
you move away from the old font and
style menus that you used to see in quit
your application one of the key things
is that users have found it confusing
sometimes they wouldn't even use the
style menu because they couldn't get at
exactly the fonts that they wanted and
so we've been working on ways to make
sure that that's much more easy to do
with the font panel all right so that's
the basics I just covered how to get
started and let's just dive into the
rest of the presentation and i'll give
you another engineer on my team nathan
taylor to talk about them Thank You
Robin hi I'm Nathan Taylor I'm a
software engineer with the pipe
engineering team and my responsibilities
include many of the API is that we're
going to show you today so what I'm here
to talk about are some of the basic
programming techniques that you can
implement in your applications to bring
it to the head of the pack as robin said
there are three basic items we want you
to take from this one and foremost adopt
the font panel in your application the
font panel is the common interface that
we have provided for accessing fonts
it's also a lot of the previous problems
with font menus and adds new
functionality for the users it's also
important to consider this in providing
a consistent user interface for
accessing fonts throughout the app
throughout the system via your
application the second item is to handle
font notifications in your application
these notifications are provided to you
so that you can respond to changes to
the font registry that a user may enact
and the third item up here store font
references how should you store font
references in your document in their
user documents now and going forward
with the system and I'll cover that a
bit later before I show you how to do
this let me give you a brief demo of
what these things will provide for your
application all right I'm going to do is
fire up a simple app here this is your
basic hello world application written
with the carbon frameworks and I what I
have here is a basic window with some
pretty plain text so now I'm going to
bring up the font panel and as you can
see we have the font panel implemented
through a pretty standard fonts menu
according to the H I guidelines now one
of the first things your application is
going to need to do when they use or
changes of font its respond to that and
actually change the font in the document
so let me pick another font here he'll
float x 96 point and you can see that
I've implemented basic font changing
within this application so besides just
the basic support for the font panel
which you can see right here there's
also functional functionality that the
font pound provides and you can choose
to implement this is some nice features
such as font effects you can see I just
implemented this panel bar right here
these effects provide things like shadow
colors underline and strike through
things that go above and beyond what the
font itself actually provides this
information is provided to your
application through the same mechanism
that a lot of the font panel information
is in addition to the font effects there
are also typographic features that the
user can access through the typography
panel as you can see hafla text has a
bunch of features here and you know
these include things like ligature
control this allows the user to have
extra control
were the font to support these features
so they can turn off and/or turn on some
of the special pictures that I thought
might have for example art is that
female font has this cool ligature that
when you type it out p no it makes one
single glyph for the whole name of the
font now the other thing to worry about
when implementing support for the font
panel is handling user focus the most
common user focus changes you need to be
worried about and that you won't
probably forget it's tracking the users
position through a body of text and
through different style runs but one
that is often forgotten is tracking the
change between windows so I just brought
up a second window here with another
greeting and let me set the font on that
real quick now you see I have push air
selected here if I change windows I've
been plugged in here tracking of the
user focus between windows when I switch
to the other window hafler text is
selected let me do that again so you can
see now it's back to close down finally
I mentioned font notifications and so
let me turn on notifications of my
application I'm going to subscribe to
them now the demo app is listening for
these and I'm going to be a user and I'm
going to disable a font using font book
let me go right after cloche and there
and turn it off a high spot book you'll
see that the demo application has
received a notification this is
gratuitous you don't need to do this in
your application but the alert is here
to illustrate the point and as you can
see this text has now changed it is now
you know using a substitute font and I
handled that substitution in my
notification call back so that the text
didn't disappear in my simple text
engine here and that about covers it for
the basic demo so let's go back to the
slides and dive right into how you can
implement this in your application so
first let's look at how to adopt the
font panel the first thing you need to
do is how do you get this font panel in
your application as Robin mentioned use
interface builder for
arvin or cocoa and drag the font menu
into your menu bar in cocoa once you've
done that it's pretty much free for all
the basic view classes and carbon
there's a little bit more work and so
let me go into that there are three
basic steps once you've put the font
panel in your application you need to
show and hide the font panel on demand
you need to handle user selection events
and you need to handle user focus so
showing and hiding the font panel is
pretty straightforward it's supported
through the standard event handler and
if you create a show fonts menu item and
give it that s hfp tag i have here the
standard command identifier for the
show/hide font panel you will get much
of the show it you know much of the
support to hide and show the font panel
with the selection through the standard
event handler you can also handle that
adventure self if you choose to again
font selection events are important
because that's where the user interacts
with your application through the font
panel they'll select the font a size and
you should be able to handle it and show
it in the current selection that they
have and finally as i showed user focus
tracking between windows is important
there's also another stage of user focus
tracking that's important when the user
has close all windows or just interim
between switching windows you want to be
able to clear the state of the font
panel and so i'll go into when i show
you the code there's a simple steps to
do that so handling font selection is
pretty straightforward the first thing
you're going to do is you're going to
receive font selection events from the
font panel these events contain
information about the user selection the
first thing your polygon want to pull
out of here is the typeface you know
that can be provided by family by PI
space directly and will probably also
include size information as I mentioned
the demo additional information such as
typographic features text effects and
even variation instance information
could be provided through the event
mechanism we've had much many requests
for support for variation instances and
it's now available through the
typographic features panel
so let's take a look at how to implement
font selection in your application this
is a really simple event handler here
now what I've got is I look for the
basic class of the event then I check to
make sure the CSA font selection event
at which point i select and extract the
parameters from the event that i need in
this case i'm pulling out the add some
fonts ID and the accident font size I'll
then pass this on to my text engine
apply them to the users current
selection and then move on here's the
point where you would also want to pull
out the extra parameters such as the
type of X typographic features and
anything else you might want from this
event now handling user focus is another
simple thing to do and let's take a look
at it try that again alright so this
first block of code shows how they
handle user focus when a window focus
acquired Dementors comes through the
same code would be used when you're
switching between users selections the
basic flow here is you extract your
target this is where you want your
events to be sent then you extract the
current text style from that target
finally calling set font info for
selection you pass in the style and the
target and that caused the font panel to
select the current style within the
window window focus from the window is
relinquished by the event window focus
relinquishes you could call set font
info for selection here it's important
to note you just passed a null for the
target and the style and that clears the
state of the font panel additionally
that instructs the font panel to
discontinue sending notifications to the
previous target alright the next item we
have to cover is handling font
notifications font notifications are
pretty simple to do but they provide a
lot of functionality for you and let's
look at what you can get and how you can
and what you can do with them the first
thing to do with notifications is you
need to subscribe and
do this by creating a callback and using
the appropriate API subscribe that
callback to notifications in your
callback it's important that you do the
work that you need to do this could
involve updating documents like i did in
the demo with custom font substitution
or if you have a standard font menu or
font list updating that it's really
important to main track your
notifications so that a user doesn't
have to quit and relaunch your
application to see changes they made to
the font system other things you can do
with want notifications or you can
notify the system of changes you make
the font directories or the registry
there's a simple API to notify the
system of changes and you'll want to do
this if you're installing fonts from an
installer application or some installer
block in your code that drops fonts in
the standard directory and finally a
little bit more interesting often you
can do and it interacts with some of the
other font management api's that we have
available is to batch your processing
events things like 80's font activate
and deactivate are lengthy operations
and they trigger automatic notifications
to anybody who subscribed if you're
doing a lot of these in sequence you'll
generate a lot of events center anybody
subscribing to notifications which could
be a performance issue what you can do
is back your operation by passing the do
not notify flag to those api's and at
the end of your bags operation call the
same 80s want notify API to tell
everybody that you're done and that
something has changed so let's see how
to do a basic subscription to font
notifications what I've done here is I
have a very simple call back within the
braces you would put the code that you
want to run and for brevity I kind of
left mine out then register it with the
system using you can register your
notification with the system using the
API 80s font notifications subscribe and
you passing your callback and you get
back a notification reference it's
possible to register
notifications and you would want to hang
on to the references especially if you
want to unsubscribe them like I do at
the bottom when unsubscribing you pass
in the notification reference and then
you no longer will receive notifications
for the callback that's attached to that
reference this you can do this in the
case where you've got multiple
functionality but only some of it needs
to be maintained through a certain time
period you know so you set up set up a
bunch of callbacks turn one off when you
no longer need it anything else you have
when your application terminates will
automatically be unsubscribed all right
the last item I have to cover is how to
store font references in your document
client references are important because
a user wants to open their documents
that they previously saved and see it
coming back just as they saved it with
the correct fonts and the correct style
information so what are the best ways
for you to store font references I've
got three here and one of them is new
for tiger so let's start with that one
use the NS font descriptor class
available from cocoa if you can this
provides extended functionality for
specifying fonts it allows you to
specify fonts more precisely if you
desire and also allows us to be more
flexible with providing fonts for your
request there are three simple steps to
using these first you would create a
font descriptor with some font
attributes could be as simple as a font
name then to save it you'll extract the
attributes from the font descriptor
which returns a dictionary which you can
flatten and save into your document
using the standard methods finally upon
opening the document you'll create the
NS font from this font descriptor and
display it and your usual will be happy
the other methods that you've seen
before if you've been inundated previous
sessions are use the postscript name if
you can't adopt sponsor scripters the
postscript name is the next best thing
it's the standard reference mechanism in
cocoa and quartz up to this point for
referencing fonts
if you happen to have a quick-draw based
application you may still need to store
the family name and style information
all right so let's take a look at some
quick code snippets for handling font
descriptors alright I've got three
blocks here the first block I create a
font descriptor by a create with name
this name is simply the PostScript name
then in the second block I extract the
font attributes this returns as you can
see an nsdictionary I then can save that
to my file and then bring it back and
create a font after an archiving the
dictionary creating a descriptor from
that dictionary and then creating an NS
font with fonts with descriptor and size
at this point the document is ready to
display and the users happy all right
that about wraps it up for me so I'll
have Robin come back on stage to give
you some more advanced programming
techniques to customize your application
thank you alright so I'm back
essentially you can see what i'm going
to talk about for the rest of the
session which is even more programming
techniques so hang in there i'm going to
try and make this as fun as possible now
one of the key things i thought about
when i was looking over this session was
what are the sorts of things i want to
hear about if i were just a generic
developer who did something with fonts
and here's something that's really
important for you is in addition to the
basic stuff we just described up above
what you can get out of the system is
hooking into it at the right level and
customizing the way font handling works
in your application so again we're
giving you recommendations and
guidelines but if you want to do your
own custom support or if you want to
make something slightly different that
makes things even better for your users
you can do it and so that includes
things like the user interface looking
at fonts in detail so you can implement
let's say your own custom text engines
handling font management in your own way
or implementing a font utility just like
font book you can also hook into the
graphic system or the way fonts are
processed either for printing or for
rendering on screen and then finally
there's a new feature that I'll go into
later that I'm pretty excited about
you'll probably notice it later is
scripting for font management and that
lets your users customize the way fonts
work for them on the on the operating
system so before I do that let me go in
and give you a quick demo that shows you
how you might want to customize some of
these features alright so I'll bring up
font book here and I've implemented a
really simple basic application that
shows you how you can customize the user
interface so like we said we recommend
using the font panel but if you want to
do something different let's say a
thought menu that does pretty much
exactly the same thing as the font panel
then I've done it fear if you look at
this you can see that it's got all the
standard collections in there within
them they've got all the contents that
you would get in a carbon or cocoa
application that's adopted the font
panel these are all the standard
collections in fact I've shown it on the
side with folks so you can see that
they're actually exactly the same now
another thing that we've done on tiger
that's new that takes advantage of the
font system and extract information out
of it and puts it up on screen in a
slightly different way is Apple system
profiler and then you blow the stuff a
little bit so you can see it and what
we've done is we've added a fonts plugin
for system profiler that essentially
lists all the fonts available on your
system extracts different bits of
information about the font and then
splashes it up on screen or in the
system profiler app so you can actually
see and get a lot of interesting
information that's in the fonts
themselves so you can see this is that
fee know I've got you know where it's
located whether or not it's enabled and
in all kinds of information about the
font itself that's actually available to
you as developers okay so that's my demo
reel quick and short and moving back to
the presentation
what I'm going to go over next is all of
these items now go through and real
quick you can tell i can speak pretty
quickly i'll try and make sure I don't
run everything together and a lot of
other so you can understand me but
essentially customizing to use their
interface first off I'm going to talk
about cocoa and then I'm going to talk
about another component ml te so with
cocoa what we've got here is it
parallels the implementation or the
additional work you might need to do
that Nathan describes for carbon and
this is important if you're writing a
custom view all of the standard text
views the text fields they handle the
front panel automatically but let's say
you're writing a no subclass of the
table view or the outline view which
don't inherently support the font panel
this is how you go about doing it and it
says two slides worth of steps it's
really easy but first of all in cocoa
just a general thing if you're dealing
with fonts most likely you're going to
have to get an instance of the shared
font manager this is the hub of getting
all your font services now once you've
got your hands on that you can send a
notification whenever your current
selection in your text object your view
changes or when you become first
responders those are the two places
where you'd actually want to do it and
so you simply send this command and
indicate the font and whether or not
it's a multiple selection that's one
part of the communication the second
half is just about a simple so what
happened here is that like I said
standard text views automatically do
this for you but if you want you can
respond to changes in the font panel or
the font user interface in the font menu
the font manager will send a
notification up the responder chain all
you have to do is listen to the default
message in this case I've implemented a
basic delegate method change font is the
message or the action message that you
need to respond to within that function
all you need to do is pull out your
current selection I've got a really
simple example here it's only one font
for the object but you can do something
more complex
can imagine I pull that out my old font
I send it back the to the bot manager to
modify it and make that match exactly
what the user has selected whatever
actions the user has done in the font
panel at the font menu it sends me back
a new instance of an N and spawn object
which then I can apply to my text field
that's it so you notice it's actually in
parallel with what Nathan describes you
listen in to the messages and you send
notifications out to communicate the
information to the font panel now in ml
te in the past you have to do what
Nathan describes as with any carbon
application but new for tiger we've made
it even simpler all you have to do now
is one line of code or in my case four
lines of code essentially there's a new
API available to enable support in a
text ention which is the old name for
MLT text objects and so in essence I've
created text object it could be either a
document or a text field indicate that
you want it to listen and support the
standard font command that's it you're
done all of that communication back and
forth updating the text object itself
all of that handled automatically for
you on tiger so that was a pretty boring
slide but it's really simple all right
so next up when you really want to get
some detailed information about the
fonts what do you do where do you go and
what ap is or how do you go about doing
it now I've got some sample code here
but let me give you just a real quick
hint when you're dealing with fonts you
want to get information there's api's
available but that's pretty much all the
layers that I described earlier Coco
absolutely ATS in all of those the
recommendation is whichever one you've
chosen to work at primarily let's say
you're a Coco application a lot of the
AP is there support the same level of
support for accessing find information
try and use it at that level if you need
to you can dip
down lower into the deeper layers as you
need to so at the very bottom of course
you've got a TS and in this case what
i've done is i want to get access to
every single thought on the system in
the registry actually let me strike that
every single font my app can see that
I'll talk about this next there's some
options you can set to define the
context and the scope of an enumeration
or a listing so in this case I create an
iterator object I pass that iterator
object to a function ap has spawned
iterator next that basically steps
through every single font on the system
that matches my criteria returns a
standard font rest that I can then use
later to access information and I'll go
into that in a little bit more detail
later once I'm done with the iteration
or the enumeration I'll release the
iterator object and I can move on fact
that's exactly what I'll do next all
right so i mentioned context and scope a
lot of people tend to ask this question
what the heck is that there's two
options I gotta mess with it simplest
way to look at it is in this diagram
you'll see the local unregistered
unrestricted combination of options
really matches what i just described
it's really all the fonts that your apps
should be able to use in speed now
within that step you've got more
restricted steps one is the local
restricted local context which is really
your local applications restricted to
just those fonts that your application
owns and manages and has entered into
the system so they're like
application-specific fonts global
restricted is the global space it's all
the shared fonts and those fonts managed
by the system itself put those together
and you get all the fonts that you can
see in use within your app there's one
more combination the fourth one which is
global unrestricted which we don't
recommend you use mainly because you
take this image duplicated essentially
with all the processes or the all the
applications in the system it'll give
you all those fonts every single fonts
and so the key thing here to remember is
you might get your hands on some fonts
that you don't have
you know you can't use basically they're
owned by somebody else all right so once
you get your hands on a font ref what
can you do with it here's one example
there's support its various layers and
its font has the support ats also has
the support you can ask this metrics
information about the fonts and also in
some cases information about individual
glyphs within the font and so you've got
the advanced you've got line information
bounding wrecks and additional
information including like the italic
angle so again the recommendation is use
those AP is at the same level as the
other AP eyes you're using in your
application now another thing okay so
customizing font management is the next
section what's that means well let me
give you a little background font
management when I talk about it we're
talking about component wise it's the
shared font registry on the system it's
the support available for Mac OS 10 that
goes out and finds all the fonts it
tracks information such as you know what
users can see the fonts what processes
can use and see the fonts and access
privileges as well as where the fonts
are located this font database or fonts
registries handles the standard file
system domain orderings this is all the
different locations so just to go
through it real quickly first off the
system will look in the user domain or
your home directories font library next
up the local domain which is the library
fonts that shared across the particular
computer between different users as well
as different applications you've got the
network fonts and then the system
critical fonts that you're not supposed
to touch and then finally it's not a
standard vows with some domain but we
supported the classic environment which
doesn't need to be running by the way
all you have to do is register it with
system preferences we'll look inside its
system folder and give you back all
those fonts also
so the way you can take advantage of
this is you can add fonts or remove
fonts in that registry you can modify
the content the way you would do it is
using this function 80s fond activates
from file specification is one example
it uses a standard file spec this is
obviously an older API pointed at your
font or your direct response indicate
now this is why we had different
contexts and scope options we we use
that one so you can register the fonts
locally within your application I've
also specified that I don't know what
the format is so please figure it out
for me and that's a really good example
with a system you can leverage it and
still provide custom support because it
handles all of the details of the
different formats and activates them
accordingly you get a container objects
back whenever you want to you can remove
those fonts from the system using that
container that's it all right now this
is something really cool it's new in the
past we've told you if you have an
application specific font you need to do
that stuff in the previous slide well
now on tiger all you have to do is stuff
your fonts somewhere in your application
bundle put a pointer to it in the
info.plist file and then you're done
everything else is taken care of for you
so the system will automatically
register those fonts with itself when
your application is launched and then
remove those fonts when your application
ships down and again the key that you'll
want to use is right up there ATS
application fonts path now another thing
is in the demo I showed you I access the
system support for collections and the
way this works just a quick review is it
lets users filter down the font list to
something more manageable and so when
you do that we actually
the way you can support it is hooking
into cocoa we also have C callable
equivalents for getting at this support
what we have here right now is the first
block of code is just getting a list of
all the collections available it's
essentially an array of NF string from
that you can actually modify or add
additional collections you can add and
remove them I don't show it here but I
do show how you can modify the contents
one or create a new one on your own and
so there's a thought geek in my group I
won't mention their names but I happen
to install my fonts and group them
according to different styles and
categories historically venetian ghiroli
are two different subclasses of or
subgroups of the seraphs old style
categories so what I want to do here in
this example is essentially take all the
descriptors side note every collection
consists of quanta scriptures as nation
nation mentioned earlier these are
essentially a way to describe or
criteria that describe one or more fonts
together so again my collection I
extract all the descriptors out of it
stick it in an array then I stuff in
some more I pull them out of the garage
collection stuff them into that array
and then I add all of those fought
descriptors to my new collections that I
referenced by is the name serif old cell
simple as that and again there's see
callable equivalents that you can use in
the carbon frame work all right so we
got font processing what does that mean
for you I think I mentioned it earlier
they're essentially a way for you to
hook into the graphic system or the
printing system what the rasterizer is
do they're actually modular components
on the system they take the raw font
data they run through it and they spit
out graphics or print related data that
includes the bitmap the outlines it also
converts the font data from what you see
on disk
that can be embedded within a postscript
document or PDF file in fact that's
exactly what the printing system on Mac
os10 uses it uses this level of support
so if you want to hook into it you can
take advantage of that now the
rasterizer is also hide all of the
details of different formats for you so
we've got truetype in all its variants
open types is actually a new format
package that is supported by microsoft
in Adobe and Mac os10 we also handle
PostScript both the type 1 and the open
type flavors so all of that details
hidden away from you so you don't have
to worry about it but still take
advantage of the general features now
here's one example of doing that I'm
going to give you 2 i'll touch on
printing next but in this case i'm using
the text layout system itself i'm using
its character to glyph conversion
support in initial block essentially i'm
using this API ok I'll let you read it
out loud by the way I've done worse than
my history essentially it takes a text
layout object that stores the text
stream the text information it takes
those character codes converts them over
to a list of glyphs records I've got a
glyph data array and account one thing
to note is that character codes don't
necessarily map the glyph IDs which are
actually the representation of the
actual shapes within a font so a good
example of this is a ligature if you
have F let's say f & L in your character
stream when you apply to a font or apply
a font to it it might get merged into
one ligature one glyph that's the SL
ligature itself and so you can take
advantage of the text system to do that
conversion for you in a standard way now
the second block of code shows you how
you can actually get that graphics paid
i mentioned one of the things you can
use it for is let's say you got some
text you want to turn it into graphics
data that you want to send to a straight
to the printer you want to modify it you
want a more
fit into a different graphic shape you
know put polka dots on it for all I know
so in order to do this you go through
those with records one by one grab the
relevant information in this case the
style object and the glyph ID and what's
really interesting here is that by the
way I'm converting this to cubic data
cubic path you can also convert it to
another form quadratic curve but in this
case I've got four standard operations
that define the shape of the glyph and
so one would be moving to a particular
point another one would be drawing a
straight line segments another one might
be drawing a curve and the fast last one
is drawing or indicating the end of the
path and so all of these functions you
can define pass it into the absolute get
cubic glyphs path function it will
basically record or playback those
glyphs allow you to record that
information in a buffer and process it
however you want you can send it
straight down to a disk whatever you
choose to all right so i mentioned
printing support essentially this is
this is a new feature in tiger now we
still highly recommend you let the
printing system do as much of the work
as possible but if you were using
instead of let's say the PDF rendering
path which is recommended you're using
the old laserwriter eight compatibility
print support to do postscript rendering
or postscript downloads this lets you
take advantage of newer support to
actually just get that font data to do
it to manipulate in your own way and so
we allow you to generate font subsets
from a standard courts font reference
using the function well cg fonts create
PostScript subsets you can indicate what
the output format should be and then an
array of glyphs cg glyph ids these are
just the same as those goodbye these i
mentioned earlier in the absolutely
example if you pass the null for the
array it will just give you every single
glyph in the font or you can indicate
specific lists as you choose once you've
done that it will return all that data
back in a CF package
foundation data package which then you
can use the standard functions and core
foundation to parse and process however
you want including spending it to a disk
or downloading it straight to a printer
okay so at this layer when you're
working on it you have to be more aware
of performance and so here are some tips
and hints when you're working in that
silly try and we use objects as much as
possible specifically for fonts
pre-allocate and reuse the abscess style
objects this this allows you to use the
caching system available in that sweet
and it basically minimizes the amount of
memory allocations and reuse of system
resources also use the courts graphics
context as much as possible when you're
working directly with a sooty this is
because actually has been optimized for
courts if you're using an older let's
say quick draw graphics port there's
some conversion that's needed that slows
things down potentially now when you're
working in court the same principles
tend to apply try and we use the CG font
reps as much as possible the courts font
references the reason for this is even
though you might have the same font
reference pointing at the same font
let's say x if it's reused in the PDF
document those would actually be treated
as two different fonts completely the
caching system also works in a similar
way now higher level components actually
hide those details from you but at this
layer if you're working directly you can
end up let's say if you were doing PDF
support you might end up embedding two
different sets of font taters that are
essentially the same font all right so I
mentioned I was excited about this well
it's really cool it's new and let me
show you instead of actually talking
about it first with an example of what
we've done on Mac OS 10 for tiger so
right now I've got font book showing if
you didn't notice earlier take a look
here I've got a
Anders Apple script menu now available
I'll just open up the scripts folder and
I've got two scripts they're available
in fact let me just pull up one using
script editor to show you that it is
actually applescript alright so one of
the key things to remember here you can
manipulate any object that font book
itself can see and handle so in this
particular case I'm just showing you the
codes we get expensive yeah this is real
code but just a quick summary of it is
it's creating a new collection named
bulbs and then it's asking all the
typefaces in font book for every entry
in there that might match the name bold
pull those out and stuff them into the
new collection i just created called
bulbs now instead of running it from
within script editor let me run it
straight from fonte books now the thing
to remember is watch the collections
pane on the left hand side you're going
to see a new collection show up there
pretty much instantaneously call bulb it
contains entries that only have a bold
typeface in it not vice if I done this
myself it would have taken me a little
bit longer than that you know snaps one
second thing now another thing that I've
done is actually I've implemented
another applescript it's really cool I
actually hugged the engineer when he
showed me this mainly because I'll let
it run I used to do have to do this by
hand okay so I go in and I'd have to
test it i said create the samples I
hated it well it's done well yes it's
done now so essentially i created a
document with 87 different families 183
typefaces all using Apple scripts and
the key thing to remember here is that
not only is font book itself Apple
scripted but you can interact or your
users can interact with other
applications that support apple script
this is easily okay so that's the demo
reel
and getting back to the presentation
here's this the final summary of what
the scripting support that's new for
Tiger consists of it's a standard apple
apple script dictionary in font book it
has a number of classes and elements
that you can take advantage of including
the domains I described earlier
collections themselves as well as
containers and you can also manipulate
or look at the thought families and
tight spaces within those each of them
has a bunch of different properties that
you can check out but the name is
definitely one of them whether or not
that font or collection is enabled and
then you can manipulate them using the
standard apple script commands like add
and remove to remove items from a
container object let's say fonts from a
collection you can also do eat objects
wholesale so that's new for tiger it's
really exciting I know some of you have
asked us in the password and we got it
done all right so that wraps up the
presentation let me just give you an
overall summary essentially adopt the
font panel if anything please try to do
that let the system do the work for you
that's really the key message here
that's where we're going to put a lot of
support in you can take advantage of
this by just doing that now if you want
to customize support you can do it like
I described there's a bunch of different
things you can do with the operating
system a bunch of different API is
available you can customize the wave
fonts work within your application to
match your users needs now if you have
any questions you can contact our
evangelist xavi a liberal and you can
also refer to the documentation on the
Apple Developer connection website and
this just touches on a couple of the
items i discussed today I kind of went
everywhere